Annabeth and her counterparts from Camp Jupiter convince Hazel, Frank, and Percy to join them on the quest to Rome and Greece on the warship Argo II, but spirits possess Leo’s body and use him to fire on the city. The group flee New Rome.

To repair damage the ship sustained, the demigods stop at a lake that promises to have the celestial bronze Leo needs. In their search, he and Hazel meet the goddess, Nemesis. If the demigods accept her help, they may be able to avenge an old wrong. Hazel and Leo receive help from Echo to wrest a sheet of celestial bronze from Narcissus, who is using it as a mirror.

As the ship heads for Atlanta, Percy has a dream in which Nico is trapped in a bronze jar. When he relays the dream to the others, they understand that this image is connected to the prophecy, and the must find Nico before his time runs out. In Atlanta, Percy and Frank learn that Phorcys is working with Gaea and almost become trapped in his aquarium. They manage to escape with a clue that leads to Charleston.

Leo and Hazel figure out that his great-grandfather was a childhood friend of Hazel’s who believed he had inadvertently caused her death. They return to the ship just as it is being attacked by a sea monster. Leo and Hazel defeat the monsters using Greek fire but are knocked out in the attack. When they awake, they are being held prisoner under the sea by fish centaurs, but the creatures are not hostile. When they confirm who Leo and Hazel are, they let them go with a letter of introduction for Annabeth to the Roman river god Tiberius.

The following morning, the demigods wake up at the Pillars of Hercules, the entrance to the Mediterranean Sea that is guarded by Hercules himself. Piper and Jason meet with him. Initially, Hercules is helpful, but when he learns their quest is at Hera’s behest, he becomes hostile. The demigods work together to get past Hercules and enters the Mediterranean.

In the Mediterranean, the demigods are pursued continuously by various monsters. In Rome, Percy accompanies Annabeth to the river where she meets with Tiberinus, who brings her to the Emmanuel building where her quest will begin. Descending deeper and deeper underground, Annabeth breaks her ankle, fights through a group of ghosts in Gaea’s service, and finally comes face-to-face with Arachne, her mother’s archenemy who guards the Athena Parthenos. 

The other demigods continue their search for Nico. Frank, Hazel, and Leo explore the Pantheon. Elsewhere in Rome, Piper and Jason are celebrating his birthday when Percy finds them, worried about Annabeth. Looking into Katoptris, Piper sees an image of Nico at the Forum, now out of the pomegranate seeds he needs to stay alive. The trio decide his needs are the most urgent and head for the Forum.

Annabeth stalls for time and eventually tricks Arachne. Furious, Arachne’s throws herself around the chamber, which sits above Tartarus. She tumbles into the abyss but remains connected to Annabeth by some threads that become entangled around Annabeth’s feet. The Argo arrives, and Percy grabs her. The two fall together, leaving their friends stunned and grieving.