Inside the camp, they find the son of Hades, Nico, and Apollo’s healer son, Will. Nico guesses that Jason is dead before Apollo passes out. He has a vision of Nero in his throne room proclaiming that he will give Camp Half-Blood 48 hours before burning New York to the ground. Apollo then sees Python who says Apollo will finish Python’s mission himself. Apollo wakes up and goes to the dining hall with more of his children. There, Will tells him that Nico felt Jason’s death and Apollo knows Nico is slowly losing his sanity after traversing the Underworld so many times

They are then called by Dionysus to discuss Nero’s ultimatum. Meg says they need to trust Luguselwa’s plan and surrender themselves so they can destroy the fasces. Apollo knows he will have to face Python once Nero is defeated. Nico realizes he needs to go to a group known as the cavern hunters despite Will’s protests, and he tells Apollo and Meg to rest. Apollo travels through camp, dismayed that he cannot find good advice on how to escape Nero. Eventually, he speaks to the Arrow of Dodona, which he believes sees something in the future that it is unwilling to share. Apollo then goes to Meg and the two agree to go to Nero together, even though Apollo is worried about Meg returning to her abuser.

The next morning, Apollo, Meg, Nico, and Will all travel to the home of Rachel Dare, the Oracle of Delphi. It is revealed that she has only seen visions when Apollo freed the Oracles, but Python is stopping most of them. Furthermore, a group of cattle suddenly arrived that no human can see, and Rachel can see a mansion that is invisible to everyone but her. The group then talks about the Tower of Nero. Rachel shows them blueprints and points of where she thinks the fasces are. She also shows them the basement where vats of greek fire are stored. Nico says they have to tunnel in with help of the trogs and sabotage the vats before Nero can spill them into the city. However, Rachel is overcome by Python and says the last part of the prophecy, predicting Apollo’s death.

Apollo goes to the throne room where Zeus says that the Oracles have been restored and the Fates can continue spinning the future. Hera chastises Zeus for not caring about Jason’s death and the gods commend Apollo before leaving. Zeus tells Apollo he has made him proud, but Apollo vows to spend as little time as possible around his father. He leaves, visiting his horses at the sun palace before splitting himself into multiple pieces to visit everyone at once.

He then goes to the Waystation to learn that the Hunters of Artemis are struggling to fight the Teumessian Fox. He sees Jo, Georgina, and Lityerses all thriving and learns from Leo that Calypso is loving high school and is currently at band camp. He says they are figuring their relationship out.

Apollo goes to Camp Jupiter to see that Hazel and Frank have created a successful reconstruction project and that Hazel’s curse is broken. Everyone else is thriving and Percy and Annabeth even say they are heading to college. They hint that their trip was more dangerous than it seemed, but they are happy to be at the camp. They mourn Jason’s death and agree that he was the best hero they had. Then, Apollo visits Piper, accidentally interrupting a kiss with her girlfriend. Piper says she is doing well and knows that Apollo has not forgotten about Jason and his promise.

Lastly, Apollo visits Meg at her home in Palm Springs. It is revealed that she is teaching her foster siblings how to take care of the plants and the dryads are planting more of themselves around Southern California. Lu is also there, living in Meg’s home with two mechanical hands. Apollo says he wants to reward Meg and, after giving a small speech about how he cannot fix all of her problems, she asks him for a unicorn. Apollo gives it to her and the two agree to remain friends with him promising he will always be there for her. He then tells the reader that they deserve a reward for reading through his trials and promises them that he will be there when they need him the most.