After discovering the Grove of Dodona — a grove of ancient prophetic trees — in the woods at Camp Halfblood, former Greek god Apollo receives a prophecy instructing him to go to Indiana in search of another oracle. Before he departs, an acquaintance of Apollo’s, Leo Valdez, returns to Camp Halfblood. Leo had been missing for months after flying his bronze mechanical dragon to rescue his girlfriend, Calypso, from Ogygia — the enchanted island where she had been imprisoned for thousands of years. When Apollo fills Leo and Calypso in on what has happened at the camp over the past few months, they volunteer to fly to Indiana with him and help complete the quest

Apollo thanks Meg for rescuing him. He tells her that he doesn’t blame her for anything that happened at the Grove of Dodona. She was manipulated by Nero and didn’t understand what he was trying to do. Meg explains that she was coming to Indianapolis to try to stop the Triumvirate because she overheard Commodus’ plan to rechristen Indianapolis in his own honor and to celebrate the occasion by sacrificing countless animals and demigods. Apollo and Meg agree to work together. Once everyone is safely settled at the Waystation, Britomartis returns. She tells Apollo that there is a secret entrance into Commodus’ palace through the sewer system, and she recommends that he take Meg and Leo with him to rescue the prisoners and find the throne.

They rest that night and leave the next morning. The three friends find the entrance fairly easily, only having to sneak by one monster on the way in. They find the prisoners’ cells and are outraged at Commodus’ cruelty. The prisoners have been starved and mistreated, but all of the former occupants of the Waystation, including Georgina, are alive.

Apollo, Meg and Leo free the prisoners and decide that Leo should guide the escapees back to the Waystation, while Meg and Apollo search for the Throne of Memory. They find the throne fairly quickly, but on their way out of the palace, Meg abruptly turns around and says that there’s something important in the other direction. Apollo reluctantly follows her back into the palace, and they find themselves in the middle of the arena where Commodus is holding a dress rehearsal for the next day’s sacrifices. In the center of the arena, tied up and hanging from the ceiling is Meg’s companion Peaches, the grain spirit.

Commodus greets Apollo and Meg and challenges them to a gladiatorial contest in order to save Peaches. Later in the dress rehearsal, he plans to sacrifice Lityerses for allowing Apollo and Calypso to escape with the griffins. Meg and Apollo accept his challenge, having no other choice, but it quickly becomes apparent that they are outmatched.

Apollo and Meg leave the next morning to travel to the Bluespring Caverns, where the oracle is located. They search for the two magical springs, since Apollo must drink from both to prepare his mind. They find them at the entrance of one of the caves and conclude that the oracle must be inside. Apollo drinks from the springs and immediately forgets who he is and why he is there. Meg leads him into the cave, but a lake infested with water moccasins blocks their path.

In his delirious state, Apollo wanders into the lake. In an attempt to save him from the snakes, Meg sings a song about her deepest fears and failures. (She had seen Apollo successfully calm animals this way in the past.) In doing so, however, she opens herself up to the oracle to receive a prophecy, even though her mind was not prepared through drinking the springs. The Waystation is safe and secure once more. Apollo places Meg on the Throne of Memory and receives a new prophecy instructing him to travel south with Meg to continue his search for the oracles. Meg recovers from the effects of the oracle within a few days, and they prepare for their new quest.