The House of Hades begins directly after the events of Mark of Athena. Protagonists Hazel, Frank, Jason, Piper, Leo, and Coach Hedge fly the Argo II (a flying Greek ship) across Italy to the Doors of Death in the House of Hades, where they plan to stop the monsters and rescue Percy and Annabeth, who have fallen into Tartarus (the underworld). The chapters alternate between the Argo II quest members and Percy and Annabeth and their adventures in Tartarus. 

While Percy and Annabeth are journeying through Tartarus, the Argo II crew fights to meet them. Hazel meets Hecate, goddess of magic and crossroads, who shows them a safe passage to the House of Hades and tells Hazel she must learn to use the Mist, the Greek form of magic, to defeat her foe in the House of Hades. Leo guides the Argo II to Bologna where two thieving brothers, known as the Kerkopes, attack them. Leo and Jason chase them through the streets, and Leo recovers their stuff: an astrolabe of Odysseus’s, and a book for the farming god Triptolemus in Venice. Leo sends the brothers to attack the Roman demigods marching on Camp Half-Blood and delay the war.

Meanwhile, they are still stuck under the underworld, searching for the doors of death, and trying to close them. It turns out that the underworld is so hot the air itself is burning. To survive the harsh conditions, they had to drink from a burning river, which managed to make them inmmune to the hot heat. To get to the doors of death, they would have to head downstream, towards the point where all rivers in the underworld flows.

In Venice, Frank proves himself worthy by killing the entire population of cow monsters and earns the blessing of his father Mars. Frank bargains with Triptolemus to save Hazel’s and Nico’s lives and obtains barley, the secret to surviving the poison in the House of Hades. After Venice, Jason has a dream about Reyna leaving the Roman demigods to bring the Athena Parthenos back to Camp Half-Blood and prevent war. Jason leads the crew to Diocletian’s Palace where he and Nico face Eros, the god of love. Nico must admit that he loves Percy to get the scepter. Jason accepts him, but Nico doesn’t want to tell the others.

After obtaining the scepter, the crew is attacked by Khione the snow goddess, who sends Leo to Calypso’s Island and freezes everyone but Piper because she thinks the daughter of Aphrodite is useless. Piper uses love and charmspeak to make Festus come alive, defeat Khione, and unfreeze her friends. Khione releases a wind bomb that blows them to Africa where the lord of the South Winds makes Jason choose to be Greek or Roman. Jason chooses Greek and gets wind horses to take them to Malta where they meet Leo, who had been stranded with Calypso. After Calypso falls in love with Leo, he leaves but vows to return. 

The Argo II travels to the House of Hades. Nico agrees to shadow-travel Reyna, Coach Hedge, and the Athena Parthenos to Camp Half-Blood to prevent the demigod war. Percy, Annabeth, Jason, Piper, Frank, Hazel, and Leo take the Argo II to Athens to fight the giants and stop Gaea.