The novel opens with Sally Jackson driving her son Percy, Thalia Grace, and Annabeth Chase to Westover Hall to find Grover Underwood, a satyr tasked with bringing new demigods back to Camp Half-Blood where they will be safe. There, they battle Dr. Thorn, a manticore, and bring back Bianca and Nico di Angelo to the camp. However, during their altercation, in which the Hunters of Artemis assisted, Annabeth went missing. Thalia blames Percy for this because he tried to fight Thorn alone. Bianca decides to join the Hunters, a group of women who have pledged their lives to their leader, the goddess Artemis of Greek mythology.

Artemis sets out on a hunt for a monster that supposedly threatens Mount Olympus and the rest of the Greek gods, and she sends the Hunters back to Camp Half-Blood with the rest of the demigods under the leadership of her lieutenant, Zoë Nightshade. Per a tradition, the campers face the Hunters in a game of Capture the Flag, which the campers lose because of Percy. The Oracle of Delphi appears and recites a prophecy in which five must go find Artemis, who is in trouble, and rescue her. The prophecy also states that two of the five will die on the journey. Despite this, Zoë, Thalia, Bianca, Grover, and another Hunter named Phoebe prepare to set off. However, Phoebe becomes ill and cannot go. Instead, after freeing a mysterious sea creature he names “Bessie,” Percy decides to follow along from afar, especially after learning that both he and Zoë have had nightmares about Annabeth and an evil figure named the General, who works for Kronos, the Titan working to destroy the gods. Percy also promises Nico di Angelo that he will keep Bianca safe.

The journey takes them first into New York City, where Percy is confronted by “Mr. D,” who is the Greek god Dionysius and director of the camp. Mr. D tells him that heroes don’t take others into account, telling him how his wife Ariadne was abandoned by another hero. He also hints that Zoë had a similar experience. However, Mr. D lets Percy continue his quest, which then continues into Washington, D.C. There, Percy spots Luke—another demigod who allied himself with Kronos—and the general as they instruct a group of zombie skeletons to go after the heroes. Percy reveals that he has been following Thalia, Grover, Zoë, and Bianca and tells them that they’re being followed. After defeating the Nemean Lion, which has come to attack them, and warding off several zombies, Zoë allows Percy to join them.

Percy sends Grover with Bessie to Mount Olympus and, with the help of Annabeth’s father, ascends Mount Tamalpais with Thalia and Zoë to rescue Annabeth and Artemis. This brings Zoë back to the home from which she was banished, and she helps them get around Ladon the dragon to fight her father Atlas, who is the mysterious “General,” and Luke. Artemis is trapped holding up the sky, which is “the titan’s curse” of the novel’s name. Percy takes Artemis’s place holding up the sky, and she battles Atlas. When Zoë tries to distract Atlas, he hits her, but the distraction gives Artemis enough time to recover and send Atlas flying back into Percy, who lets go of the sky in time for it to fall back on Atlas. Thalia also defeats Luke, seemingly killing him. With Atlas trapped and Luke gone, the heroes saved the world.Artemis creates a constellation in her honor.

Upon returning to the camp, Percy has to tell Nico that Bianca died. Nico is enraged, and his anger opens up a crack in the earth before he runs off. This makes Percy realize that Nico is a son of Hades, so the prophecy about the children of the Big Three could also be about him. At the end of the novel, Percy decides that Nico has had enough suffering, and he claims the prophecy as his, then goes home for the holidays.