Percy is chased into Camp Jupiter by two gorgons that will not stay dead no matter how many times he kills them. Percy knows something is wrong, but he cannot say what it is, because he has lost his memory. All he knows about himself is his name and that he has a girlfriend named Annabeth. The goddess Juno tells him he will suffer the worst pain and misery of his life if he chooses to follow the path he is currently on, but Percy instinctively knows he has no other choice.

Percy befriends two students at Camp Jupiter named Hazel and Frank. Hazel is the daughter of Pluto who was rescued from the Underworld by her brother, Nico di Angelo. Frank does not know who his father is, but after his mother’s recent death in Afghanistan, his grandmother sent him to live at the camp. Before he left, she told him about a visit from Juno when he was a baby where the goddess revealed that once a specific piece of firewood burns completely, Frank will die. His grandmother gave him the piece of firewood and told him to learn to embrace not only his father’s legacy, but his family’s as well.

Frank sneaks his friends into his grandmother’s home and finds Mars sitting with his ailing grandmother. Mars tells Frank that his grandmother is dying and has been waiting for his arrival. When the older woman wakes, she tells Frank more about his family history, reassuring him that his ancestors were always on the right side even if they were not remembered that way. She then stressed that he had the same gift as his ancestors, encouraging him to discover for himself what that gift is. When the ogres begin their attack on the house, Frank believes he finally understands what the gift is, but is unsure he can do it. Instead, he uses his leadership skills to come up with a plan to get himself and his friends out of the house.

Percy, Frank, and Hazel finally arrive in Alaska, but still must get to the glacier where they believe Alcyoneus is holding Thanatos. Arion has disappeared and they take a train to the small town where Hazel and her mother once lived. Once in the town, they visit Hazel’s old home and are stranded as they cannot charter a boat or plane that will take them where they need to go. While trying to figure out their plan, a group of gryphons attacks and they are saved by Arion’s return. The horse speeds them to the glacier where Thanatos is being held. The glacier has the remnants from a Roman camp of the Fifth Cohort that went on a quest to Alaska in the 1980s and lost the Twelfth Legion’s eagle.

Percy receives word that a warship from the Greek camp, Camp Half-Blood, is on its way. He speaks to the Romans to warn them of the impending arrival and to convince them that the Greeks only want to help with the fight against Gaea and to close the Doors of Death. Several Romans speak against working with the Greeks, but Reyna convinces the senate to hear them out. The warship arrives and Percy anxiously goes to greet them, hoping Annabeth will be onboard.