At the beginning of the narrative, Jason has lost all of his memories and does not even know his last name. He wakes up on a bus holding Piper’s hand. He is sure he wasn’t there a moment before and confused as he learns that she believes she is his girlfriend. Likewise, the boy in front of them, Leo, believes he is Jason’s best friend. The two tell him that they’re all problematic teenagers who were sent to the Wilderness School for reformation. Only their supervisor, Coach Hedge, can confirm that he’s never seen Jason before.

The mystery of Jason’s identity is partially unraveled when a group of venti, or storm spirits, attack the campers. Jason fights them off and rescues Piper from death, in the process displaying his ability to fly. Coach Hedge is taken by a ventus, but soon, teenage demigods Annabeth and Butch arrive on winged horses and take Jason, Leo, and Piper to Camp Half-Blood. They are disappointed to find these three rather than their missing friend Percy.

Jason, Piper and Leo begin their journey at the home of Boreus, god of the North Wind, where they meet his daughter Khino, the goddess of snow. Boreus has instructions from Aeolus, the god of Wind, to kill all demigods on sight—but he lets them go (a decision which Khino opposes) on the condition that they capture the venti and deliver them to Aeolus. 

They proceed on their journey to Aeolus, and on the way, they stop several times, twice because Festus breaks down. At each stop, the demigods face a difficult obstacle. First, Leo saves Jason and Piper from three Cyclopes; then, Piper saves Jason and Leo from Medea, the mortal villain come back to life. Finally, Jason saves his friends from King Midas, also resurrected by someone he calls “his patron.” The three bond closely (with Piper and Jason experiencing strong romantic attraction to one another), but Piper remains torn, as she knows the giant Enceladus has her father. She debates over betraying her friends, but after the encounter with King Midas, tells them the truth. 

Together, and with an assist from Zeus, the demigods defeat Enceladus and rescue Tristan. Coach Hedge offers to care for him as the demigods complete their quest. Finally, they arrive in the San Francisco Bay Area at Wolf House, and reunite with the Artemis Hunters, who are battling ogres and snow spirits. Khione reappears, revealing that she imprisoned Hera to assist Gaea and claim her rightful place in the world order. 

Leo and Piper work together to free Hera as Jason battles the giant Porphyrion. At the final moment, Hera is freed, and uses her full power to scare away the giant. Jason almost dies, but Piper is able to bring him back with charmspeak. Hera returns the demigods to Camp Half-Blood.

At Camp Half-Blood, each character arrives more empowered.