The Hidden Oracle starts with the sun god Apollo as the protagonist and first-person narrator of the series. It starts with a self-introduction by Apollo, explaining that he is currently being punished by his father Zeus, who turned him into a mortan human until the punishment is over. Apollo is still getting used to having a mortal body and being called Lester, as shown on his new driver's license. ( Zeus has a sense of humor there, giving Apollo a driver's license, to remind him that he's mortal now )

Waking at Camp Half-Blood, Apollo meets his demigod children Will Solace, Kayla Knowles, and Austin Lake. Apollo learns from them and the camp administrator, Chiron, a centaur, that the camp is in the middle of its own set of crises. The Oracle of Delphi can longer foretell the future, and the demigods are unable to communicate in and out of the camp. More worryingly, campers have been mysteriously disappearing into the woods surrounding the camp. Apollo wants Chiron to prioritize his problems but learns that his fall and the events at the camp may be linked. Meanwhile, as Meg defends herself against a prank, she displays her formidable powers. Demeter, the goddess of harvest and agriculture, claims Meg as her child by displaying her symbol of a sickle and sheaves of wheat above Meg’s head.

At the camp, though Apollo finds himself still excellent at music, he is encumbered by his mortal shortcomings, such as a hand that cramps after playing an instrument. After he fails at archery, his other beloved skill, Apollo swears on the River Styx to never again engage in either activity. Meanwhile, in the afternoon, the campers form teams of two for a three-legged death race in the ancient maze called the Labyrinth. The object of the race is to claim three golden apples from the Labyrinth. Meg and Apollo are paired. While lost in the Labyrinth, they overhear a conversation between the monster Python, who has seized the original cave of Delphi, and a shadowy human called “the Beast.” The Beast tells Python that he will be able to control all the Oracles once he has destroyed the fifth and oldest Oracle, the Grove of Dodona.

Apollo and Meg retrieve the apples and escape the Labyrinth. Back at the camp, Apollo is shocked to learn that his children Kayla and Austin have disappeared into the woods. Apollo tries to go after them, but Meg orders him to wait. Meg reveals to Apollo that she knows the Beast from his voice. He is the man who killed Meg’s father. After the murder, Meg was adopted and raised by her stepfather. The next day, Rachel Elizabeth Dare, Apollo’s priestess and the medium of the Oracle of Delphi, flies into the camp using a helicopter. She shares her suspicions that Triumvirate Holdings, a company headed by the three worst Roman emperors in history, is behind the attempt to control the Oracles. She thinks the missing campers are being led to the Grove of Dodona.

Apollo and Meg enter the woods in search of the grove. A geyser spirit or palikos directs them to the gateway to the grove, which is next to a nest of giant ants. Apollo and Meg are attacked by the ants or myrmeke. Apollo distracts the ants by playing the ukulele, breaking his oath to the River Styx. In the process, another set of ants carry off Meg to their lair. Apollo rescues Meg and wins over the queen ant with his music. Apollo and Meg go to the gateway, where they find the missing campers, bound, unconscious, and tied to stakes. As Apollo and Meg attempt to free the captives, they are seized by gigantic elite Roman guards. Nero, the infamous Roman emperor and the leader of the triumvirate, finally makes an appearance.

Nero reveals that Apollo’s attackers in New York were his henchmen while Meg is none other than his adopted daughter. Meg purposely claimed Apollo’s service so she could bring him to Camp Half-Blood and Nero. To Apollo’s shock, Meg admits Nero’s story is true. Even though Nero’s cruel side, the Beast, murdered her biological father, Meg is loyal to her stepfather. Meg commands Apollo to help her open the gates to the grove. Bound to her, Apollo has no choice but to obey.