As the story opens Jason, Piper, and Annabeth are trying to find out Gaea’s plans. At the end of book four in the series, Gaea awakened while the heroes took the Athena Parthenos from the abode of Arachne. Finding out that a large meeting of Gaea’s underlings looms on the horizon, Annabeth, Jason, and Piper begin to surreptitiously look into things. Using Hazel’s Mist to disguise themselves, the trio attends the gathering of resurrected souls in Ithaca at the home of Odysseus. They find out that Gaea’s army plans to attack the Acropolis in Athens and not Mount Olympus as had been thought. The demigods must circle Peloponnese to reach Athens as the Gulf of Corinth is heavily guarded.

One of the souls sees through the demigods and makes Jason confront the spirit of his mother which leads to Jason being wounded. The three demigods summon Juno, who tells them to find Nike at Olympia along with Artemis and Apollo, all of whom were banished by Zeus. While at Olympia, Percy, Leo, Hazel, and Frank are forced to be part of the deadly Olympic Games of Nike, whom they are able to capture. She tells them that one of them is fated to die; they need the “Physician’s Cure” for which there is three ingredients: Pylosian mint, the heartbeat of the chained god, and the curse of Delos. Frank obtains Pylosian mint from relatives.

They believe the chained god to be Ares because of a chained statue of him the Spartans had as a guarantee that they would win all wars. Piper and Annabeth go to the temple of Ares in the ruins of Sparta to battle for the second ingredient. Further adventures lead to Leo, Frank, and Hazel meeting with Artemis and Apollo at Delos. Apollo gives them the third ingredient. He tells them that his son Asclepius can make the cure and that he is at Epidaurus. When they leave, Leo tells Hazel that he plans to sacrifice himself in order to beat Gaea and give himself the cure later.

Once they receive the cure from Asclepius and arrive in Athens, the demigods battle an army of giants at the Acropolis and defeat them with the help of Zeus. Percy and Annabeth are injured by the giants, and Gaea is awakened by their blood. Meanwhile, Reyna, Nico, and Coach are on their way to Camp Half-Blood. In her dreams, Reyna learns that a giant is pursuing them. They are attacked when they reach Evora, but are able to defeat Lycaon and move on to San Juan where Reyna is from. There, Reyna is taken captive by the Hunters of Artemis, who are working in conjunction with the Amazons.

The leader of the Amazons is Hylla, Reyna’s sister. The giant is Orion,who kills the Hunters and the Amazons. Continuing their ongoing travels via shadow-travel, Reyna, Nico, and Hedge go to South Carolina. When Bryce Lawrence, who had once been exiled by Reyna, makes an attempt on her life, he is turned into a ghost by Nico.

Upon arriving at Camp Half-Blood, Nico and Coach head to the camp, and Reyna ends up on a yacht on Long Island Sound. She defeats Orion there. Nico meets some Greek demigods, which almost leads to confrontation, but Reyna ends the threat by revealing the Athena Parthenos. Meanwhile, Gaea appears and starts to attack the camp. Zeus transports the seven demigods, who then battle Gaea.

Piper makes Gaea sleep, Leo sacrifices himself, and Gaea is eventually destroyed. The two sides stay together and celebrate their Camp Half-Blood triumph, until the Romans return to Camp Jupiter the following day. Nico decides to stay at Camp Half-Blood; Percy and Annabeth decide that they will move there as well to go to college after completing high school. Leo is revived by the physician’s cure.