I guess copyrights are established for a reason. Although most of the reasons are economical ones, while few of them are sentimental.

Most of the times, a copyright is made to protect a particular piece of work form being distributed without permission from the publisher. Most of these situations are for books. Authors write books to share information, but also mostly to get the profits. Many of the world's books are avaliable as ebook files, which would have to be purchased, and then the ebook aould be available to you either as an online version in your browser or a local version available for download. As for local files, nothing can stop people from sharing them to other people, who wouldn't have to pay for them.

Also, when a project is made, sometimes people would not want other people to copy their work, therefore insuring their "originality".

Do we really have to use copyrights? If you wanted to play a song, you must get the sheet music from paid websites or apps, who would have to pay the person who made the song money, cause, well, they made to song. You want to read an ebook, a digital file that is stored in bytes, but you must pay to read them. Who wants to pay people to read things, now in the digital age? Yes, we aould appreciate the author for making th book for others to read, and they deserve to be paid, but they never deserve to be paid for something that is stored in bytes.

If I made many songs and books, I would certainly like to make money out of them. And of course I will. Most of the times people buy things. But what about those people who "pirate" my songs and books? Well, they surely did not benefit my wallet, but they worked to get it for themselves, and that would be their "well-earned" reward.

Getting documents without permission whould not be illegal, as not all people are willing to pay, so they would try and find a website where they could get them for free. It would cut down some of the profits, but better for those who can not afford to buy them.

And, there's another kind of copyright: the meaningless kind. Why would anyone copyright dance moves?? So there's something in the universe that decides that you cannot do a series of body movements in that particular order or you would be violating a copyright? And songs too. Why aren't we allowed to use a series of pitches in our music in a particular order just becuase someone has used it before? Oh, man.