We're moving to a new house, but really, there's really not much to write about.
And why would we do this now? We lived in here for two and a half years now, very slowly set up the furnishings while living in this house with fixed routines for every day...

There's not much to complain about, really. Living here has a loud bang for the buck, since we four could live in this place decently! With the interior setup of 2 bedrooms, 1 decent sized kitchen, 1 bath, 1 shower and 1 toilet, we managed to live quite well! I mean, besides the inconveniences when more than one person is in the kitchen or bathroom, everything is well, actually.

So this ingenious design of the house really compensated or the small area, but there was one problem that really does it. One of the oldest problems in building: temperature regulation.

However, that's only one equation, the one that would, very likely, give you a correct prediction. Of course, now comes the hard part: the unpredictable might happen. Asteroids might knock the moon slightly off its path, and your prediction would be wrong. The catch is that there shouldn't be only one. If you built a light-year-radius astroid monitoring system, you would be able to predict where, if possible, the astroids would hit moon, and what changes it would make, and change the prediction.

Many other equations need to be considered to get an extremely accurate prediction, lots of them much harder than building a light-year-radius asteroid monitoring system. Simply put, absolute certainty is a very very complicated business, but possible.

Oh well, a fair amount of houses in Melbourne were built 20 years ago, and this is one of them.

Normally the interior temperature is regulated with air conditioners that are able to blow heated wind as well as cold wind, but our air conditioner is very old, and we do not use air conditioners anyway, since they either directly or indirectly blow into your face or your back. Brr. There's also the 20-years-ago-fashioned ground heaters, which burn natural gas (imagine) to heat up air and blow them into the rooms through the floor. We have four of these ground heaters, and they really make your skin crawl (with either the dust accumulated through the years or the trace chemicals of the natural gas)...

Well, moving to a new place at the start of November, 2022. Write about it then.