Encryption is a familiar concept, and a very important one too. Today, encryption often needed, and as the need for encryption grows, I shall write a guide to encryption for better understandings and use of encryption.

What is the ultimate goal of encryption? Of course, to contain information. More specifically, to contain information in such a way that only through knowing a certain key, or understanding the method of how the information is encrypted, can the information then be decrypted.

It looks like encryption is very closely related to information security in general. If you want your information to be "secure", you could:
1. Destroy it
2. Hide it as well as you can
3. Encrypt it as well as you can

These are the only three ways, and you know that the first two are not so suitable: you can't destroy something you want to send, and hidden things are, at most times, ultimately found. So, we'll focus on encrypting it as well as we can.

If you want a room to be secure, you have many things to consider.
1. How many locks does the door have?
2. Is the lock strong?
3. How much time does it take to unlock the door?
4. Are the keys hidden well enough?
5. Can someone break down the door?
6. Can someone break down the walls?
...

1. a comparison table.
To do this just match characters with their corresponding characters.
"Hello world!" -> "Muiik jkwiq+"

2. add variability to characters.
To do this you can make different comparison tables for each character in a position.
"Hello world!" -> "Csvdf ifgsj/"
Realize now that 'l' does not mean 'i' anymore; it can mean 'v' or 'd' or 's', depending on the position it was used.

3. more character range.
To do this use a wider range of characters. In fact, as wide as you want.
"Hello world!" -> "?1>`- xIoem="
Realize now the characters are more diverse. 'l' could mean '>' or '`' or 'e' now, depending on the position it was used.

4. encode spaces too.
Encoding the spaces are also needed, you know.
"Hello world!" -> "(#@Ji@20{;?)Q"
Realize now spaces are encoded too.

Now, people would never know what "(#@Ji@20{;?)Q" means unless they know how it is encrypted.