When it comes to making predictions and decisions, uncertainty is a huge problem. I'll not waste any time to explain why. So, people have thought of ways to do better predictions, especially ones that could predict the unpredictable. There are many theories regarding some mystical aspects of choas and uncertanty, and I will discuss about that.

First, non-linear regression. In other words, equations. It was proposed that all events, more or less, tend to be in sync with multiple equations. One example of this is the moon's position relative to earth... You could predict what city the moon would be over exactly a decade from now if you had your accurate data. How? Physics would help you. The equations tell you that if your data has extreme precison, The prediction is almost guaranteed to be right.

However, that's only one equation, the one that would, very likely, give you a correct prediction. Of course, now comes the hard part: the unpredictable might happen. Asteroids might knock the moon slightly off its path, and your prediction would be wrong. The catch is that there shouldn't be only one. If you built a light-year-radius astroid monitoring system, you would be able to predict where, if possible, the astroids would hit moon, and what changes it would make, and change the prediction.

Many other equations need to be considered to get an extremely accurate prediction, lots of them much harder than building a light-year-radius asteroid monitoring system. Simply put, absolute certainty is a very very complicated business, but possible.

When computers become powerful enough they will be able to simulate an entire city and all the things in it, precise to every atom. Why not, then, create an exact simulation of earth? Why not the solar system? Why not the galaxy? Or the whole universe? Most people will agree that sometime in the future these will be able to be made. But the real question is, will a person, in that computer, composed with virtual atoms, be conscious? If so, what are his actions? 

It is a classic event in simulation. You simulate a whole city, and the computer would know exactly what the weather would be a decade later. It is able to predict everything that happens in that simulation because it is the one who made that simulation and all the laws of forces and all the matter is stored inside the computer, and making perfect predictions would be just as easy as making pie. But the scientists inside that simulation, assuming that they were conscious, would work hard to predict the weather with humidity levels, wind direction and force, local temperature etc. They gave it their best shot, yet they could never ever make perfect predictions.

Another familiar concept in simulation: Who simulates who? We could be inside a simulation in a simulation, while one day making simulations of whole universes ourselves. One thing is clear: we do not expect anything from those people in our simulations, because, everything they do is already predicted.