There are many authors out there, and of course, a very wide range of books.

Yes, many kinds. There are thousands of categories of books, in fact, but they are of different importance, potencies.

And the thing is, sometimes poeple write peculiar books.

Remember when you found a passage in a book that explains something very enigmatic?
Like this: https://the-system.cheerstoast.repl.co

Or when you have seen The End poem?
Here: https://the-end-poem.cheerstoast.repl.co

There are quite a few writers in the world that actually writes peculiar books. One example is Julian Gough. The above two examples are both written by him.

The thing is, passages like these completely blow your mind - if you think about them hard enough.

For example, in "The System" passage, it is described that:

That's how the universe is organized at your level, the level you understand.

The level of football teams, literature, summer holidays...

It's all about the organs, the veins, the arteries, the nerves passing their messages, the perpetual wave of air and water and nutrition and excretion passing through the system.

Another level down, and it's all about the cells and the bacteria. The enzymes mass-producing the proteins that make everything happen. The mitochondria powering your cells. The viruses transferring DNA between species.

The high-level command goes out, and the system below that level does the job, without even realizing there's been a command. Messily, with lots of failures at this lower level. When you issue the order to pick up the cup of coffee, there are always neurons that don't fire. Muscle fibers that don't get enough glucose in time, and fail to contract.

Red blood cells that get jammed in some capillary and never deliver the oxygen.

Failure at the level of the individual cell is assumed. But the sheer number of neurons, of muscle fibers, of red blood cells thrown at the problem smooths out the individual failures and delivers the required result. Put a signal through enough redundant analogue processors, and you get a digital output.

What are the orders of this world coming from? Why is it operating like this?

They're coming from me. Your friendly local System of Systems. They're coming from one level up. I'm about to move, and some cells are starting to twitch. Like a brain commanding muscle fibers. He's one.

So, do you get this concept now?

Does the red blood cells understand what they are doing?

Can they handle the concept of something much bigger than them commanding them to do stuff?

No.

What this is saying is that people, despite all, are only minor individuals in the local System of Systems. They serve a particular purpose to the system above, and individual failures are harmless and ignored.

This suggests that destiny is predetermined.


This kind of peculiar writing is really what I would like to read, 