If the world is run by what we call the God or the gods, then it would be a romantic way of describing how the world operates.

We always think that something... anything... could be the master of all things, and by extension the creator of all things.

We could solve this question by looking under.

Let's say that I control the world.

Well, I'm how the universe is organized one level up from you. I'm your local System of Systems. From your point of view, I work in broad strokes. I don't micromanage every tree, every cloud, every human being. Just as you don't micromanage every muscle fiber, glucose molecule, red blood cell in your body. You just send the order, and your hand picks up the cup of coffee, or scratches your ear, or writes E=MC².

That's how the universe works, at every level. The high-level command goes out, and the system below that level does the job, without even realizing there's been a command. Messily, with lots of failures at this lower level. When you issue the order to pick up the cup of coffee, there are always neurons that don't fire. Muscle fibers that don't get enough glucose in time, and fail to contract.

Failure at the level of the individual cell is assumed. But the sheer number of neurons, of muscle fibers, of red blood cells thrown at the problem smooths out the individual failures and delivers the required result. Put a signal through enough redundant analogue processors, and you get a digital output.

What are the orders of this world coming from? Why is it operating like this?

They're coming from me. Your friendly local System of Systems. They're coming from one level up. I'm about to move, and some cells are starting to twitch. Like a brain commanding muscle fibers. He's one.

So, do you get this concept now?

Does the red blood cells understand what they are doing?

Can they handle the concept of something much bigger than them commanding them to do stuff?

No.

They are only aware of chemical levels in the bloodstream, if there's a pathogen close to them, and where would they go next.

They are, after all, unintelligent beings.

And those red blood cells are made up of atoms.

Atoms, you would say, have no intelligence at all. They interact with nearby atoms, sontrolled by the rules of physics. How do they know that they are inside some red blood cells delivering oxygen for the muscles to contract, allowing a person to lift up their arm, which is being used to build a house?


We do not recognize, and could not imagine, what our influences have on the system on top of us.

Some call this fate. Some call this destiny.

It doesn't matter.

It's the system of humanity. We could never expect what it wants to do.