Many books and articles have mentioned the concepts described in the movie The Matrix. Since its publication, people began to the the true essence of the world in an entirely different way. It made the concept of reality become much more unclear and complicated. Is it all JUST numbers? If so, what's the point in... pretty much everything?

And here comes the matrix paradox: We know that we could one day create an extremely realistic simulation ourselves, and creating virtual consciousness in the process. What's more, The Matrix itself suggests that we are all living and moving inside a simulation. This appears to be an endless loop, and we would never know which reality is the ultimate one.

The first necessary step towards solving this paradox is to realize why these matrices are created in the first place. It may be out of curiosity, or it may serve a particular purpose for the ones who created the matrix. If they wanted to create a virtual world where they could escape into for recreation, or if they simply wanted to run a few virtual matrix simulations for scientific discovery and experimentation. There's nothing in the matrix that could help the matrix-creators physically, but they could present to them valuable information for research or other purposes.

Also, each of the matrices depend on their makers for the energy needed to operate the matrix they are in. If their makers are in a matrix too, then it would be virtual energy. If the makers of THEM are also in a matrix, it would be virtual virtual energy... Regardless, people living in a matrix are totally dapendent on their creators. Just imagine what we would do if we created a full-scale ultra-precise simulation of earth. We need to pay all the running costs, in return for maybe helpful information for us.

Now, here is when it gets creepy. Let's say there's someone living in the ultimate reality called Joe, and he wants to, like many of his friends, run a zillion-radius spherical simulation, because he wanted to know how the world started. After some uncountable calculations done by his computer, consciousness appeared in his simulation. Virtual connsciousness. After some more uncountable calculations, the people in the simulation has made three (or maybe three thousand) simulations of their own too. Maybe someday they will even create virtual consciousness too, and so on.

Joe's computer may have huge computational powers, but it's limited. How much computing power does a computer need to simulate a simulation that has so many more simulations inside it? Let's put away the problem about computational powers, but instead focus on the flow of information.

Each matrix creator monitors and extracts information from the matirces they created, and Joe will be the one who has the most information. Visualize it as a family tree, where the eldest ones of the family monitors their young, while also being monitored themselves.