Commercials have become so much different in the last 40 years. At that time, most commercials are in the form of printed ads that takes up only takes up 16 square centimeters. While commercials today could be displayed in very high resolutions with charming sounds... The commercial advertisement world has opened up greatly.

The ultimate objective of every commercial is, of course, to attract customers' spending and get profits, and we all know that sometimes companies go to great lengths trying to make good commercials.

We should make lists, multiple lists, to present how a good commercial should be made. Lists are like recipes and formulas, correct, precise and indisputable. However, this is the overview, and specific details about how to achieve the objectives would require more research.

The full list of things to take into consideration:

Part 1: Think about the background

~ Does the audience need the products?
~ Does the audience want the products?
~ If the audience need the products, you should explain why they should buy the products instead of others.
~ If the audience want the products, you should explain attractive features of the product to persuade them more.
~ If part of the audience doesn't want the products, how could you persuade them?
~ What would the customers who want the products expect the commercial to look like?

Part 2: How you should make the commercial

~ Important: Attract first attention, use as many methods as possible to do this. Like using a very interesting headline, a straightforward introduction, etc. 
~ Important: Visual and auditory effects must be pleasing. There are whole books describing how to do these.
~ Make the features of the products that are most appealing to the customers most clearly presented.
~ Important: The brand should be significant in the commercial.

Part 3: Final checkups
If any of these are true, the commercial fails.

~ The audience know exactly what products you sell.
~ The commercial is not annoying unclear or meaningless. 
~ The audience is persuaded that this brand is a good brand to buy from, and probably better than other brands.

Well, that's all of it for now. A good commercial does not miss any of these key objectives. Sadly, quite a large proportion of commercials fail to meet these standards.